.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright © 2018 Nadim Kobeissi <nadim@nadim.computer>. All Rights Reserved.

.TH DISKGEM 1 "10 November 2018" "Nadim Kobeissi" "DiskGem"

.SH NAME
diskgem \- command-line secure file transfer (SFTP) client

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diskgem
[
.I DIRECTORY
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DiskGem
is software for secure file transfer over SFTP. DiskGem currently offers an easy to use, 
stable command-line user interface that supports parallel file transfers and other useful features.
.br
.P
DiskGem focuses on ease of use and on offering an enjoyable command-line interface:
.IP \(bu
Arrow keys are used for navigating within a folder (up/down) and between folders (left/right).
.IP \(bu
Alphanumeric keys, when pressed within panes, will change the current file selection to the file starting with the pressed key.
.IP \(bu
Tab is used for switching between the left pane (local files) and the right pane (remote archive files).
.IP \(bu
Enter is used for uploading or downloading files. Multiple parallel transfers are supported.
.IP \(bu
Delete is used for deleting files.
.P
Some windows offering extended features are also accessible via certain key combinations:
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+C \(em open the Connect view which allows connecting to servers.
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+N \(em shows the New Folder creation window.
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+G \(em shows the Go To window to switch paths more quickly. Supports tab autocompletion.
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+P \(em shows the Properties window, displaying file information and allowing renaming or modifying file permissions.
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+R \(em refreshes the current pane.
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+A \(em shows the About window.
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+D \(em disconnects from the current server.
.IP \(bu
Ctrl+Q \(em disconnects from the current server and quits DiskGem.


.SH DIRECTORY
Specifying a directory at the command line will start DiskGem at that local directory.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT
DiskGem creates a user configuration file located at 
.I ~/.config/diskgem/diskgem.cfg
with the following data:
.P At the top level, the configuration file contains the following fields:
.IP \(bu
ServerURI \(em the URI of the last connected-to SFTP server.
.IP \(bu
Username \(em the username last used to connect to an SFTP server.
.IP \(bu
KnownServers \(em an array containing all known SFTP servers.
.P
The \fIKnownServers\fP array contains elements with the following fields:
.IP \(bu
Hostname \(em the hostname of the SFTP server.
.IP \(bu
Username \(em the username used to connect to this SFTP server.
.IP \(bu
Fingerprint \(em the confirmed SSH public key fingerprint for this SFTP server.
.IP \(bu
LastFolder \(em the last folder accessed on this SFTP server.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sftp (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Nadim Kobeissi
.MT nadim@nadim.computer
.ME .
For more information, visit the DiskGem website at
.UR https://\:diskgem.info/
.UE .
